"Focus on fixing the problem, never focus on the blame. Problems are only resolved when solutions are sought." 
Catherine Pulsifer 


"Don't make excuses - make good." 
Elbert Hubbard 


"When we blame, we give away our power." 
Greg Anderson 


"Don't argue for other people's weaknesses. Don't argue for your own. When you make a mistake, admit it, correct it, and learn from it- immediately." 
Stephen Covey 


"All blame is a waste of time. No matter how much fault you find with another, and regardless of how much you blame him, it will not change you. The only thing blame does is to keep the focus off you when you are looking for external reasons to explain your unhappiness or frustration. You may succeed in making another feel guilty about something by blaming him, but you won't succeed in changing whatever it is about you that is making you unhappy." 
Wayne Dyer 


"When you plant lettuce, if it does not grow well, you don't blame the lettuce. You look into the reasons it is not doing well. It may need fertilizer, or more water, or less sun. You never blame the lettuce. Yet if we have problems with our friends or our family, we blame the other person. But if we know how to take care of them, they will grow well, like lettuce. Blaming has no positive effect at all, nor does trying to persuade using reason and arguments. That is my experience. No blame, no reasoning, no argument, just understanding. If you understand, and you show that you understand, you can love, and the situation will change." 
Thich Nhat Hanh 


"Blaming others is excusing yourself." 
Robin Sharma 


"Praise loudly, blame softly." 
Russian Proverb 


Everyone must take responsibility for themselves. Blaming your problems on the world will get you nowhere. 
Claire Shannon, Gratitude: Feel Grateful Today and Every Day 




"Who's to blame, who's to credit, but us? Who can change it, any time we wish, but us?" 
Richard Bach 



"Focus not on who to blame but focus on the solution." 
Catherine Pulsifer 



"I believe it is vitally important to get back into action, not to dwell on past successes, or to get mired in the poor me syndrome where it becomes easy to blame everything and everyone else for problems." 
Catherine Pulsifer, from Moving Forward 



"If you reveal your secrets to the wind you should not blame the wind for revealing them to the trees." 
Kahlil Gibran 


"Some people have a tendency to blame other people for the way they are feeling. Other people are not responsible for your feelings, you are - you own them, you control them." 
Byron Pulsifer, Responsibility for Happiness 


"Placing the blame is a bad habit, but taking the blame is a sure builder of character." 
Dr. O. A. Battista 


"The easy way out would have been to feel sorry for myself and blame the world for my misfortune, to moan and groan about how unfair life is. Instead, I found my way to the public library and discovered a new world in the self-help section." 
Catherine Pulsifer, Wings of Wisdom 


"There is luxury in self-reproach. When we blame ourselves, we feel no one else has a right to blame us." 
Oscar Wilde 


"If you don't have the skills to get a better job, whom should you blame? Take responsibility and accept the blame. After all, you have the choice - you are blessed with the opportunity to acquire new skills from thousands of schools, or courses to chose from." 
Byron Pulsifer, Are Your Blessings Visible 



"A man may fall many times but he won't be a failure until he says someone pushed him." 
Elmer G. Letterman 



"The trouble with this country is that there are too many people going about saying, “The trouble with this country is…." 
Sinclair Lewis 




“Before you can live a part of you has to die. You have to let go of what could have been, how you should have acted and what you wish you would have said differently. You have to accept that you can’t change the past experiences, opinions of others at that moment in time or outcomes from their choices or yours. When you finally recognize that truth then you will understand the true meaning of forgiveness of yourself and others. From this point you will finally be free.” 



“The battle you are going through is not fueled by the words or actions of others; it is fueled by the mind that gives it importance.” 



“People that have trust issues only need to look in the mirror. There they will meet the one person that will betray them the most.” 



“It’s time to care; it’s time to take responsibility; it’s time to lead; it’s time for a change; it’s time to be true to our greatest self; it’s time to stop blaming others.” 



“The chains that keep you bound to the past are not the actions of another person. They are your own anger, stubbornness, lack of compassion, jealousy and blaming others for your choices. It is not other people that keep you trapped; it is the entitled role of victim that you enjoy wearing. There is a familiarness to pain that you enjoy because you get a payoff from it. When you figure out what that payoff is then you will finally be on the road to freedom.” 




“The more you talk about it, rehash it, rethink it, cross analyze it, debate it, respond to it, get paranoid about it, compete with it, complain about it, immortalize it, cry over it, kick it, defame it, stalk it, gossip about it, pray over it, put it down or dissect its motives it continues to rot in your brain. It is dead. It is over. It is gone. It is done. It is time to bury it because it is smelling up your life and no one wants to be near your rotted corpse of memories and decaying attitude. Be the funeral director of your life and bury that thing!” 



“An important decision I made was to resist playing the Blame Game. The day I realized that I am in charge of how I will approach problems in my life, that things will turn out better or worse because of me and nobody else, that was the day I knew I would be a happier and healthier person. And that was the day I knew I could truly build a life that matters.” 





“Blaming others is an act of refusing to take responsibility. When a person can’t accept the fact or the reality, they blamed another person or the situation instead of taking accountability.” 



“You can get discouraged many times, but you are not a failure until you begin to blame somebody else and stop trying.” 






“Blame doesn't empower you. It keeps you stuck in a place you don't want to be because you don't want to make the temporary, but painful decision, to be responsible for the outcome of your own life's happiness.” 




“Some people live their lives being perpetual victims and finger pointers. To anyone who points a finger at someone else and lays all the blame at their feet instead of taking responsibility for their own behavior, I would say, "I see that finger and you know where you can put it?” 





“There are only two kinds of people who can drain your energy: those you love, and those you fear. In both instances it is you who let them in. They did not force their way into your aura, or pry their way into your reality experience.” 





“Abandon the idea that you will forever be the victim of the things that have happened to you. Choose to be a victor.” 




“We need someone to thank and someone to blame; thus the concept of God and the Devil. We can't accept that everything that happens to us, is our own doing.” 



“The sun rises every morning and sheds light, vanquishing the night's darkness. The rooster also rises every morning only, unlike the sun, he simply makes noise. But the darkness of the night is dispelled by sunshine, not by the rooster's crowing. The world can use more light and less noise. Wherever I can, I want to be light.” 



“The world can use more light and less noise. More solvers and fewer blamers. More folks showing a better way and fewer folks complaining about how much better things used to be. More folks offering help and fewer folks wringing their hands about the problems. More hope bringers and fewer hope killers.” 
	


“Decisions of character come from understanding that they are accountable to God only, not to family, spouses, religious leaders, corporations, public opinion or your own ego.” 



“It is good to have a reason for every action you perform other than blaming others for your faults.” 



“It’s time to care; it’s time to take responsibility; it’s time to lead; it’s time for a change; it’s time to be true to our greatest self; it’s time to stop blaming others” 




